- How effective is it training
with rubber bands to build strength?
The answer is not effective at all.
I know some of you're gonna be surprised
that I'm saying something like that.
Bands buy themselves are trash.
You can't really do anything with them.
They're gonna twist your
joints, they're gonna hurt you.
And probably the most important thing
that you're missing when
you're training with bands
by themselves is you're
not loading the bottom.
You have to load the bottom.
That's where the stimulus
happens, the stretch position,
the all the way back position.
You need to have some force there
because ultimately, as you do repetitions,
let's say I'm doing 20
repetitions on chest press,
I'm gonna get to the point
where I shorten the repetitions
because I'm losing access to the muscle.
And a lot of the cells are
basically disqualifying
themselves from being
part of the contraction
because they've been exhausted.
So with variable resistance,
now this is a band plus a bar
that keeps my wrist straight.
So I'm pushing as many times as I can.
Now, I can go to fatigue
in diminishing range.
So I might get in, in my first set,
I might get five fatigue
points in one set.
So that gives me potentially, like,
this has been marginally proven in Dr.
Sean Conley's research,
but you get sort of five
times the stimulus in one set
that you would normally get
with a, with a weight set.
But that doesn't apply to bands.
It's because there's an
apparatus attached to the band so
that you can really load the bottom
and get full access to the
power that the band has.
So when somebody says you can
either do great with bands
or you can't do great with bands,
there's a, it's not that simple.
It's are you using bands
as a part of a strategy
to load the entire full range of motion?
If yes, then you can do phenomenal.
But that's not really the
question When someone says bands,
bands suck.